README.md, before:

# SecureFinanceManager

This project was generated with [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 16.1.1.

## Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

## Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.

## Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

## Running end-to-end tests

Run `ng e2e` to execute the end-to-end tests via a platform of your choice. To use this command, you need to first add a package that implements end-to-end testing capabilities.

## Further help

To get more help on the Angular CLI use `ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI Overview and Command Reference](https://angular.io/cli) page.

Commit message:

adding a setup and usage guide for the frontend

README.md, after:

# SecureFinanceManager

## Description

The Secure Finance Manager is an Angular-based frontend application designed for managing user finances. It needs to be connected to the Secure Finance Manager backend to function correctly. The backend server is available at [SecureFinanceManager-Backend](https://github.com/Fischer-Jessica/DA-SecureFinanceManager-Backend-202324).

This project was generated with [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 16.1.1.

## Guide

### Branches

The repository consists of two branches:

- `secure_finance_manager`: This is the primary branch housing the application's codebase.
- `test_program_to_check_the_connection_with_the_backend`: This branch was created for testing the connection between nodes and is not essential for regular use.

### Changing Files

To use this application, you need to change the `apiURL` in the `app.config.ts` file to the URL of the backend server.

### Running the Application

#### Development Server

Run `ng serve` for a development server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

#### Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.

#### Further Help

To get more help on the Angular CLI, use `ng help` or refer to the [Angular CLI Overview and Command Reference](https://angular.io/cli) page.
